Salesforce Lead Automation Explanation and Instructions

How the Application Works

The goal of this application is to automate the process of handling new leads coming from PlanHub. Instead of manually reviewing and converting these leads, the system does it automatically while preventing duplicate companies from being created.

Step 1: Data Entry
When a new lead is created in Salesforce, the system checks a custom field called Lead Source Detail. If the value in this field is exactly PlanHub, the automation begins. If it is anything else, the lead is saved normally and nothing else happens.

Step 2: The Trigger and Handler
An Apex Trigger listens for new leads being inserted. It passes the leads to a Handler class. The handler looks at the email address of the lead and extracts the domain name. For example, if the email is chris at brandnewdomain.com, it extracts brandnewdomain.com.

Step 3: Account Matching and Creation
The system then searches the Salesforce database to see if an Account already exists with that exact domain. 
If a matching Account is found, the system remembers it.
If no matching Account is found, the system automatically creates a brand new Account and fills in the domain field.

Step 4: Lead Conversion
The system instantly converts the lead. It attaches the new Contact to the matched or newly created Account. It also creates a new Opportunity, sets the stage to Prospecting, and sets the close date to 30 days from today.

Step 5: Email Notification
Finally, a Salesforce Flow is actively listening for any new Opportunity created in the Prospecting stage. When it sees one, it immediately sends an email alert to the designated sales team email address so they know a new PlanHub prospect is ready to be worked.

Instructions for Testing

To test the New Account scenario:
Create a new Lead. Enter a First Name, Last Name, and Company. Enter an Email address with a completely new domain that is not in the system yet. Type PlanHub into the Lead Source Detail field. Save the record. It will convert into a new Account, Contact, and Opportunity.

To test the Existing Account scenario:
Create another new Lead. Enter a First Name and Last Name. Enter an Email address that uses the exact same domain you used in the first test. Type PlanHub into the Lead Source Detail field. Save the record. It will convert and attach as a second Contact under the Account you created in the first test.

To test the Control Group scenario:
Create a third new Lead. Fill out the required fields. Leave the Lead Source Detail field blank, or type something other than PlanHub. Save the record. It will remain a Lead and will not convert.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Presentation Walkthrough Script (What to say during your presentation)

Introduction:
Hello team. Today I will walk you through the lead-to-opportunity automation I built for EverPro. The goal of this project was to automate the handling of incoming leads from PlanHub, eliminating manual data entry and preventing duplicate accounts.

Architecture Overview:
I built this using a combination of custom fields, an Apex Trigger, a Handler class, and a Salesforce Flow. 
First, we added a custom field on the Lead object called Lead Source Detail to identify PlanHub leads, and a Domain field on the Account object.
When a lead is created, an After Insert Apex trigger fires and passes the data to our handler class.

The Logic:
The handler filters for PlanHub leads and extracts the email domain. It then queries Salesforce to see if an Account with that domain already exists. If it does, we attach the lead to it. If it does not, we create a brand new Account. 
Then, the code automatically converts the lead into a Contact and an Opportunity in the Prospecting stage.

The Email Alert:
Finally, a Record-Triggered Flow listens for new Opportunities in the Prospecting stage and sends an immediate email alert to the sales team so they can take action.

Scaling for Production (Crucial point to mention):
If you ask what I would change if this was going to production at scale:
Currently, the lead conversion happens synchronously in the trigger. If we were loading 10,000 leads at once via an API or Data Loader, synchronous conversion could hit Salesforce CPU timeouts or lock errors. For massive production scale, I would move the conversion execution into a Queueable Apex class or an asynchronous Batch job so it does not hold up the initial Lead insertion transaction.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Terminal Commands Used During Development (If they ask how you deployed it)

1. npm install -g @salesforce/cli
What it did: Installed the Salesforce Command Line Interface (CLI) on the machine.

2. sf org login web -a MyDevOrg
What it did: Authenticated the CLI with the Developer Org and gave it the alias MyDevOrg.

3. sf project deploy start -o MyDevOrg
What it did: Deployed the code, custom fields, and flow from the local computer to the Salesforce cloud.

4. sf apex run -f scripts\apex\create_test_leads.apex -o MyDevOrg
What it did: Ran the test script directly from the terminal to bypass UI caching and verify the backend logic worked perfectly.